# Using Ledger CLI for Non-Profit Organizational Accounting

Non-profit organizations (NPOs), particularly 501(c)(3) charities in the USA,
have their own specific accounting needs.  These often differ from for-profit
accounting needs.  For example, for-profit-oriented systems often make
problematic assumptions about the workflow of accounting tasks (often because
NPOs rely primarily on donations, rather than fee-for-service or
widget-selling income).  Also, non-profit income is categorized differently
than for-profit income, and the reporting requirements vary wildly from their
for-profit equivalents.

This project is designed to provide some basic templates, tutorials, workflow
documentation and scripts to handle accounting for an NPO.  The primary
example is a
[direct project (aka Model A) fiscal sponsor NPO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiscal_sponsorship#Models_of_fiscal_sponsorship).

The tutorials herein

# Copyright and License of this project

The intention is that the examples and templates be of maximum use to
everyone in all possible contexts.  As such, no copyleft is applied, and the
examples and templates will be licensed under CC-0v1.0.  The documentation
itself (such as the READMEs and tutorials) are dual-licensed
(GPLv3-or-later|CC-By-SA-3.0) for maximum use as redistributable
documentation, or for use in GPLv3-or-later and/or AGPLv3-or-later projects.

# Copyright and License of this File

This specific document, the README.md file for npo-ledger-cli, is copyrighted:
  Copyright Â© 2013, Bradley M. Kuhn

The copyright holders wish that this document could be placed into the public
domain.  However, should such a public domain dedication not be possible, the
copyright holders grant a waiver and/or license under the terms of CC0-1.0, as
published by Creative Commons, Inc.  A copy of CC0-1.0 can be found in the
same repository as this README.md file under the filename CC0-1.0.txt.  If
this document has been separated from the repository, a [copy of CC0-1.0 can
be found on Creative Commons' website](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode).
